---
layout: post
title: The Inferno of Independence
pinboard: true
author: Frank Chimero
cite_url: http://frankchimero.com/blog/2013/09/the-inferno-of-independence/
---
A mythology of speed is one of willful ignorance to the small details
that hold the whole arrangement together. And, I think, if you’re
building things for the internet, those small details matter, because
they are repeated ten-fold, hundred-fold, million-fold, as they are
replicated effortlessly through screens, across the globe, and into
people’s consciousness for countless hours of exposure. Economies of
scale make small decisions matter, but speed— both in making those small
decisions and in interacting them—makes both sides blind to what’s going
on. We’re thoughtlessly writing things we can’t read, because we’re
going too fast.

Has any one ever considered the creepiness of social media’s interface
copy?

“View friendship.”  
“Remember me.”

It feels perverse, awkward and foreign, yet familiar, like the best
details in a dystopian story. It’s appealing in that way, but it also
irritates me, because I love words. Words mold brains, and if you don’t
believe it, you should look at what sort of language we use about the
internet and the products (digital and not) that connect to it and are
part of it.

Revolutionary, disruptive, magical, wizards, and on and on—contemporary
digital culture has co-opted the language of revolution and magic
without the muscle, ethics, conviction, or imagination of either. And
it’s not that those things aren’t possible, we just aren’t living up to
their meaning and instead saturating ourselves with hyperbole. These are
words you have to earn, and slinging them around strips the words of
their powerful meaning. Can you take a real revolution seriously if you
are bombarded with messaging that your phone is revolutionary?
