---
layout: linkpost
title: Seasteading
cite_author: Charlie Loyd
cite_url: http://tinyletter.com/vruba/letters/6-3-seasteading
---
Again, your common or garden Valleybro Does Not Get This. He looks for
that magical 10x programmer. He looks for efficiency. His strategy might
work, ish, for one generation, which is – gosh – about how long it's
been. But short-term, lines-of-code efficiency completely misses the
long-term point. Innovation, "disruption", comes from outsiders, and you
can't say "hey, let's make a group of outsiders and rule the world"! I
mean, you can – people do all the time – but you lose your outsider
perspective really fast. (Unless maybe you have someone like Steve Jobs,
who is constantly reminding you that you are not buddies, you have not
arrived, and you should drop acid and live in an ashram for a while if
you really want to understand technology, and you're fucking his
company, and Microsoft is evil, and so on, but even then, jeez!)

Eh. Everything hinges of course on the details of separateness. The
problem for me is that I don't see any interesting points in the phase
space of anything worth calling separateness. A converted oil platform
would be astonishingly hard to have an open society on. Where do the
sewage engineers live? Why do they come there voluntarily? Why do their
countries of origin allow them to work there? Why would even a
billionaire want a house there? Is this idea – not to put too fine a
point on it – interesting to anyone other than men? And that's like 90%
of what I have to say about it right there.

I'm not offering a new critique here. People have always asked who
cleans the toilets in Galt's Gulch. I'm just trying to color a sketch of
how hard a problem practical logistics are. Supply chains are really,
really tricky, and it would be quite a trick to sign up for them without
entraining a bunch of stuff to do with credit supply, labor and safety
laws, and so on. That bureaucracy is sometimes bad, sometimes
unnecessary and corrupt, but it's also what makes it work. The real
world is not a packet network – physical objects come with complex and
inseparable contexts, and they are produced by a huuuge machine full of
flywheels with unfathomable inertia.
